all right then gang so there's one more
quick topic i want to talk about in this
series and that's something called row
level security so by default if anyone
has that public api key that we used to
connect to the super superbase back-end
they can read and write to our database
and likewise by using that api key on
our website any user can currently fetch
the smoothies create smoothies update
smoothies and delete them as well
because when our website is using that
public key to connect to the database it
has access to everything by default
now that key is public remember so if
you want to protect your data to
restrict access to your database you
need to do so from the back end and we
do that by using something called a row
level security and policies
so
row level security is a way of
restricting database access at row level
in tables and policies are essentially
security rules that describe what access
should be allowed at that level
if you've ever used firebase and
firestore before they're kind of the
equivalent of firestore rules where you
can lock down different parts of your
data for example i might write some
pauses for my smoothies table and those
policies might say that anyone can read
all rows from the table but only
authenticated users who are logged in
can create and update rows and then also
maybe no one even authenticated users
can delete rows from the table now i
don't want to get bogged down too much
with authentication in this series or
anything like that because this is a
beginner series about the database
mainly so we'll be creating a couple of
really simple policies but in the future
i will be doing a whole series about
super bass authentication and we're
going to dive a bit deeper into this
topic then to see how we can lock down
data dependent on the user who is making
that request and whether they're
authenticated or not right but for now
let's head to the smoothies database and
the first thing we need to do is enable
row level security for this table so
find the smoothies table and select it
and you'll notice in the top right
corner that it says rls is not enabled
so rls stands for row level security
so with the minute we don't have any
security enabled for the table and
anyone with that public api key has read
and write access
so
click on that arrow list button and then
on the next page you want to enable rls
and then click on confirm in the pop-up
so now row level security is enabled on
our table and by enabling this alone
we've basically just locked down our
entire table because the default
behavior of a table with rls enabled is
to prevent all kinds of access to the
table to anyone or anything making a
request to it now i can show you this by
going back to the application and
refreshing the page and you'll see that
now we can't see any smoothies because
now we don't have access to them but
what i want to do now is make some
policies
so that users can read all the data so
that they can see all the smoothies on
the home page and also make some
policies so that users can create new
smoothies but i want to lock down the
ability to delete smoothies so that if a
user tries to do that then it fails and
also the same for updating smoothies as
well i want to protect the table from
any kind of update request as well as a
delete request so to create a new policy
we click over here new policy and what
i'm going to do is just go to get
started quickly because you can just
basically select one of these and it's
going to generate a template for us so
what we want to do is enable read access
to everyone for our policy right here so
basically that allows anyone on the home
page to be able to see all of the
different smoothies so if i use this
template
you can see on the next screen we have a
policy name already created for us
select is highlighted over here because
that's what we want people to be able to
do anyone so anyone can select data or
read it if you like from the table and
then down here we set that to true
meaning there's no kind of extra
condition it's just true for anyone and
this is the target roles and it defaults
to all roles if no one's selected
basically meaning anyone viewing the
website essentially in our case so let's
review that and then save the policy and
that means that now
for the smoothies table anyone can read
the data so now if i go over here and
refresh we should be able to get all of
that data
and likewise if i click on and edit we
should see we're able to fetch a single
record as well however if i try to
update this
then it's not going to work we're still
seeing that error right here because we
catch the error when it's returned to us
if i inspect and go to
the console it's going to be a different
error though and it's this one right
here it just says fail to load the
resource the server responded with the
status of 404 and this array right here
has nothing inside it so it's not
allowing us to do that and the same is
true if i try to delete something over
here it is being removed from the local
state but if i refresh then we can see
it comes back again so although we're
updating the local state at the minute
uh database level we're kind of locking
down that request so it's not allowing
us to do it all right
so that's the first policy in place the
next thing i want to do is create a new
policy over here
and i will go for full customization so
basically it just starts you at this
page and then i'll just say allow all
users
to create
smoothies that's what i'll call it and
then we will allow insert so select that
basically just keep this as the defaults
all roles and make sure this is true
meaning basically anyone can create new
data if we scroll down here we can
review that and then save the policy and
now we have these two policies right
here if we go over here and try to
create a new smoothie hopefully we'll be
able to do this so let's just call it
abcd anything for the method and the
rating is 10 out of 10 create smoothie
it allows us to do that because we can
see it right here that's awesome so if
we try to update something if i try to
add an e on the end it's not going to
allow us to do that you can see right
here we get an error over here and
this is just the local error that we
have in our react application it's not
the error coming back from superbase we
could handle it a bit differently if we
wanted to but i don't want to get bogged
down with that i just wanted to show you
that we can lock down the data in our
database using a row level security and
these policies so it's not allowing us
to update anything and it's not allowing
us to delete anything even though it
gets deleted from the local state
because we're just doing that locally
when we refresh obviously we see that
reappear so we've not actually deleted
it from the database so then this was
like an introduction to row level
security and policies and it only
touches on the surface because when you
make a real-life web application you'll
probably want to have a lot more
granular control over your data access
such as analyzing authentication status
seeing who that user is and restricted
access based on those kinds of things so
because this was a beginner's course i'm
going to leave it here for now but i
will be doing a more advanced super base
authentication course in the future
which is going to dive into the subject
of rls and policies a bit more so stay
tuned for that one but hopefully now my
friends you have a better understanding
of what superbase is how you can connect
to it from a front-end application and
how to make a database table and
interact with that from your front end
to make a simple crud application